---
title: '_Escherichia coli_: placing resistance to third-generation cephalosporins and fluoroquinolones in Australia and New Zealand into perspective'
date: 2021-09-08
permalink: /posts/2021/White/
tags:
  - Escherichia coli
  - Urinary infections
  - Antimicrobial resistance
---

Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a global public health crisis. Rising AMR affects antimicrobial therapeutic guidelines, particularly as third-generation cephalosporins (3GCs) are recommended as ‘first-line’ treatments to avoid prescribing ‘last-line’ antibiotics.

Abstract
======
At least 300 million urinary tract infections (UTIs) occur annually worldwide. Uropathogenic _Escherichia coli_ (UPEC) are the leading cause of UTIs. The discovery of antibiotics has revolutionised modern medicine. Yet, overusing antibiotics has accelerated the emergence of antimicrobial resistance (AMR), with UPEC driving the dissemination of AMR globally. Resistance to broad-spectrum antibiotics like third-generation cephalosporins (3GCs) and fluoroquinolones threatens public health. Extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing _E. coli_ precipitate resistance, particularly when these antibiotics are used as empirical therapies against UPEC. In response, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States have listed ESBL-producing Enterobacterales, such as _E. coli_ as a severe threat. Additionally, the World Health Organization have classified 3GCs and fluoroquinolones as the highest priority (critically important antimicrobials), where these therapies are only recommended following susceptibility testing. The present report demonstrates the distributions of _E. coli_ cases with resistance to 3GC and fluoroquinolones in Australia and New Zealand and contextualises trends with European reports. This investigation emphasises the value of epidemiology and the justification of evidence-based interventions using data as an essential resource for reducing resistance to our ‘first-line’ antibiotics.


Read the full publication here: [https://doi.org/10.1071/MA21031](https://doi.org/10.1071/MA21031)
------
